Reprap, started in a uni.

  A long time ago, in a university fairly close ... (Bath)

What is a reprap? (3d-printer)

Have been following the project since the beginning.

Waiting for advancement.. and cheaper kits.

Tried to build one from scratch + electronic kits (McWire) - failed ... 

Eventually decided to buy a full kit.

   Image of reprapsource + price tag. Alongside dimension printer + price tag.

Not quite a reprap, it's a repstrap.

   Can't build it's own parts, but can build reprap parts. Project aims for full replication, but can't make steel parts or electronics, but is being wored on.

Print things! Thingiverse. 

    Download, slice (what's that?), print, use.

Design your own things, OpenSCAD.

    High level programming language to describe shapes geometrically (CSG), (which takes more than 5 mins to explain)
    Images?

Doesn't take a nice way to output text. Designed a sundial.

    Parametric, can set variables for your location, re-run program, get correct sundial for you! (thats not easy in traditional modelling programs).

Sundial needs text, numbers for the hours.

    But, we can program! Take a freetype font, find the outline data, convert it to openSCAD format. There's a perl module! Font::FreeType2.

First attempt looks something like this.. And this.. 

    Creating rectangles along the edges, not so pretty..

Sometimes, my GF is cleverer ... She suggested using polygons instead. 

    Much better, but still not quite right, how to handle curves? (See letter P)

Treat curves like lines, works for most fonts ... 

    Truetype actually uses bezier curves.. Oh look, another Perl module! Math::Bezier (Pardon my french)

This thing is reaaally slow.. it's slower for Russian than english.. and slower again for Japaneses??

    In fact it's slower the higher the unicode codepoint goes.. Maybe there's a module for that?? Nope.

    Lots and lots of elsifs .. Easy to generate, slow to run, end up with as many elsifs to traverse as the codepoint we're trying to get to.

We can do this better, by log 2 of number of glyphs in font.

    How many glyphs in Arial? New code! Looks more complicated, is more complicated, runs much much faster.. It's a compiler, we care much more about how well it works.

Finished sundial!



    

